the first world war was a global
conflict history books tell us that it
was a conflict between white man in
Europe but I want to tell you the untold
story of how black men were treated when
all they wanted to do was fight for
their king when I was studying about the
war I'd be like wow people like me were
actually like him fighting for their
lives and stuff and you just even like
with white people as well like they'd
seen those images still maybe have a
different perspective on black people
and like just people that are not the
same color understand this is the story
of a forgotten regiment who gave up
their life to serve our country the old
history you don't learn in school when
the first world war broke out people
across the Empire felt the patriotic
duty to fight but the War Office didn't
want them the War Office questioned the
quality and ability of West Indian men
to fight well this really meant was the
government we're worried about damaging
decades of white racial prestige while
rejecting black men they sought to
actively list white men from the Empire
nonetheless more black men came to fight
something had to be done in 1915 it
became such a big issue even king george
v had to intervene the War Office
finally agreed to the creation of a
specific regiment for West Indians on
the 3rd of November 1915 the British
West Indies regiment was established and
a recruitment drive in the West Indies
began Merced adorn the street of the
West Indies
calling on men of all color creed in
class to come forward to fight really
once it year to all these two and tell
me what you think because one is address
to Australians and the other one is the
promise what difference you see you know
that the language the fact that saying
help us so giving us and it gives that
feeling that I'm empowered as well I can
help it somebody young contribution
feels more aspirational like will you
help us keep that promise it's more like
we need you but not like her we need you
because we just need you and we're
losing and we need more people but we
need you because we want you I think
don't you give me to come and put down
my life for you and your rights much
wrong with me it's almost like why
aren't you already fighting for your
country should have already been
fighting for your country it was
considered to be too dangerous to have
black men fighting alongside white men
so instead they were giving labour
duties many British Indian troops would
end up undertaking laborious jobs such
as digging trenches building roads and
working in ammunition dumps they also
received lower pay and we're prevented
from holding any position high of ANA
sergeant to keep an out of Europe many
were deployed in Egypt and the Middle
East
their roles were still highly dangerous
work was within range of the enemy men
were killed
by the end of the wall 15200 and four
black men representing British Guiana in
all the Caribbean colonies had served in
the British West Indian regiment 185 of
these men were killed in action 1071
died from sickness and disease in 697
where wounded looks like oh it's not
awful it looks like a normal history
picture not an alternative one it's also
an example - and a educational for white
people and for white children who have
grown up thinking that these are just
immigrants alongside them not knowing
that some of these immigrants
grandparents may have fought to protect
their motherland their home country as
well so it's same it's important for
everyone when peace was declared the
army did not know what to do with these
so called second-class soldiers around
it the West Indian soldiers up near the
City of Toronto in Italy while the white
soldiers were celebrating victory the
black soldiers were ordered to do
laundry and clean the latrines when the
rest of the army got a pay rise the
black soldiers did not they felt
mistreated and humiliated outraged the
mutant ate the mutant lasted around four
days they refused to work in violence
broke out the War Office was
unsympathetic to their demands the
dispatching machine-gun corpse to deal
with the troublemakers the ringleaders
were rounded up and 60 soldiers were
tried for mutiny it's just such a
horrible reaction to people that have
put their life on the line for their
country and to then be treated like that
it's it's beyond me some was sent to
prison up to 21 years and one was even
executed by firing squad then the West
Indies regiment was disbanded they were
hoping to fight shoulder-to-shoulder
with our fellow countrymen they had
given their lives for their king
and they expected more from the mother
country and yet that was not the case
they were met with prejudice and
discrimination black soldiers who had
fought during the war we're treated as
second-class citizens their experiences
of oppression in warfare were etched in
their memories and yet they were written
out of British history and their history
should be remembered when we talk about
the First World War
we've been here fighting we've been part
of the British history not just black
history not black British history but
British history as a whole this is
something that includes all of us
regardless of whether from the Caribbean
or Africa black history is British
history
[Music]